Context: An economic depression is a period of carried long - term economic downturn that is the result of lowered economic activity in one major or more national economies. Economic depression may be related to one specific country where there is some economic crisis that has worsened but most often reflexes historically the American Great Depression and similar economic status that may be recognized as existing at some country, several countries or even in many countries. It is often understood in economics that economic crisis and the following recession that may be named economic depression are part of economic cycles where the slowdown of the economy follows the economic growth and vice versa. It is a result of more severe economic problems or a downturn than the recession itself, which is a slowdown in economic activity over the course of the normal business cycle of growing economy. Economic depressions may also be characterized by their length or duration, showing increases in unemployment, larger increases in unemployment or even abnormally large levels of unemployment ( as with for example some problems in Japan in incorporating digital economy, that such technological difficult resulting in very large unemployment rates or lack of good social balance in employment among population, lesser revenues for businesses, or other economic difficulties, with having signs of financial crisis, that may also reflect on the work of banks, or may result in banking crisis ( in various ways that may be for example unauthorized transformations of banks ), and further the crisis in investment and credit ; that further could reflect on innovation and new businesses investments lessening or even shrinking, or buyers dry up in recession and suppliers cut back on production and investment in technology, in financial crisis that may be more country defaults or debt problems, and further in feared businesses bankruptcies, and overall business slowdown. Other bad signs of economic depression could be significantly reduced amounts of trade and commerce ( especially international trade ), as well as in currency markets that maybe fluctuations or unexpected exchange rates with observed highly volatile currency value fluctuations ( often due to relative currency devaluations ). Other signs of depression are prices deflation, financial crises, stock market crash or even bank failures, or even specific behaviour of economic agents or population, that are also common or also non common elements of a depression that do not normally occur during a recession. DefinitionsIn the United States the National Bureau of Economic Research determines contractions and expansions in the business cycle, but does not declare depressions. Generally, periods labeled depressions are marked by a substantial and sustained shortfall of the ability to purchase goods relative to the amount that could be produced using current resources and technology ( potential output ). Another proposed definition of depression includes two general rules : a decline in real GDP exceeding 10 %, ora recession lasting 2 or more years. There are also differences in the duration of depression across definitions. Some economists refer only to the period when economic activity is declining. The more common use, however, also encompasses the time until the economic activity has returned close to normal levels. A recession is briefly defined as a period of declining economic activity spread across the economy ( according to NBER ). Under the first definition, each depression will always coincide with a recession, since the difference between a depression and a recession is the severity of the fall in economic activity. In other words, each depression is always a recession, sharing the same starting and ending dates and having the same duration. Under the second definition, depressions and recessions will always be distinct events however, having the same starting dates. This definition of depression implies that a recession and a depression will have different ending dates and thus distinct durations. Under this definition, the length of depression will always be longer than that of the recession starting the same date. A useful example is a difference in the chronology of the Great Depression in the U. S. under the view of alternative definitions. Using the second definition of depression, most economists refer to the Great Depression, as the period between 1929 and 1941. On the other hand, using the first definition, the depression that started in August 1929 lasted until March 1933. Note that NBER, which publishes the recession ( instead of depression ) dates for the U. S. economy, has identified two recessions during that period. The first between August 1929 and March 1933 and the second starting in May 1937 and ending in June 1938. TerminologyToday the term " depression " is most often associated with the Great Depression of the 1930s, but the term had been in use long before then. Indeed, an early major American economic crisis, the Panic of 1819, was described by then - president James Monroe as " a depression ", and the economic crisis immediately preceding the 1930s depression, the Depression of 1920 - 21, was referred to as a " depression " by president Calvin Coolidge. However, in the 19th and early 20th centuries, financial crises were traditionally referred to as " panics ", e. g., the'major'Panic of 1907, and the'minor'Panic of 1910 - 1911, though the 1929 crisis was more commonly called " The Crash ", and the term " panic " has since fallen out of use. At the time of the Great Depression ( of the 1930s ), the phrase " The Great Depression " had already been used to refer to the period 1873 - 96 ( in the United Kingdom ), or more narrowly 1873 - 79 ( in the United States ), which has since been renamed the Long Depression. Common use of the phrase " The Great Depression " for the 1930s crisis is most frequently attributed to British economist Lionel Robbins, whose 1934 book The Great Depression is credited with'formalizing'the phrase, though US president Herbert Hoover is widely credited with having'popularized'the term / phrase, informally referring to the downturn as a " depression ", with such uses as " Economic depression cannot be cured by legislative action or executive pronouncement ", ( December 1930, Message to Congress ) and " I need not recount to you that the world is passing through a great depression " ( 1931 ). OccurrenceDue to the lack of an agreed definition and the strong negative associations, the characterization of any period as a " depression " is contentious. The term was frequently used for regional crises from the early 19th century until the 1930s, and for the more widespread crises of the 1870s and 1930s, but economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " recessions ", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression. The only two eras commonly referred to at the current time as " depressions " are the 1870s and 1930s. To some degree, this is simply a stylistic change, similar to the decline in the use of " panic " to refer to financial crises, but it does also reflect that the economic cycle - both in the United States and in most OECD countries - though not in all - has been more moderate since 1945. There have been many periods of prolonged economic underperformance in particular countries / regions since 1945, detailed below, but terming these as " depressions " is controversial. The 2008 - 2009 economic cycle, which has comprised the most significant global crisis since the Great Depression, has at times been termed a depression, but this terminology is not widely used, with the episode instead being referred to by other terms, such as the " Great Recession ". Notable depressions ##The General Crisis of 1640Main article : The General Crisis ##The largest depression of all time occurred during the General Crisis. The Ming Empire of China went bankrupt and the Stuart Monarchy fought a civil war on three fronts in Ireland, Scotland, and England. Thomas Hobbes, an English philosopher, created the first recorded explanation of the need for a universal Social Contract in his 1651 book Leviathan based on the general misery within society during this period. Great depression of 1837 ##This depression is acknowledged to be a worse depression in the United States than the later Great Depression of the 1930s. This depression ended in the United States due to the California Gold Rush and its tenfold addition to the United States'gold reserves. As with most depressions, it was followed by a thirty - year period of a booming economy in the United States, which is now called the Second Industrial Revolution ( of the 1850s ). Panic of 1837Main article : Panic of 1837The Panic of 1837 was an American financial crisis, built on a speculative real estate market. The bubble burst on 10 May 1837 in New York City, when every bank stopped payment in gold and silver coinage. The Panic was followed by a five - year depression, with the failure of banks and record high unemployment levels. Long DepressionFurther information : Long Depression New York police using force to remove rioting protesters in Tompkins Square Park, 1874 ##Starting with the adoption of the gold standard in Britain and the United States, the Long Depression ( 1873 - 1896 ) was indeed longer than what is now referred to as the Great Depression, but shallower in some sectors. Many who lived through it regarded it to have been worse than the 1930s depression at times. It was known as " the Great Depression " until the 1930s. Great DepressionMain article : Great DepressionThe Great Depression of the 1930s affected most national economies in the world. This depression is generally considered to have begun with the Wall Street Crash of 1929, and the crisis quickly spread to other national economies. Between 1929 and 1933, the gross national product of the United States decreased by 33 % while the rate of unemployment increased to 25 % ( with industrial unemployment alone rising to approximately 35 % - U. S. employment was still over 25 % agricultural ). A long - term effect of the Great Depression was the departure of every major currency from the gold standard, although the initial impetus for this was World War II ( see Bretton Woods Accord ). Greek depressionMain article : European sovereign - debt crisis ##Beginning in 2009, Greece sank into a recession that, after two years, became a depression. The country saw an almost 20 % drop in economic output, and unemployment soared to near 25 %. Greece's high amounts of sovereign debt precipitated the crisis, and the poor performance of its economy after the introduction of severe austerity measures slowed the entire eurozone's recovery. Greece's troubles led to discussions about its departure from the eurozone. Post - communism depression ##The economic crisis in the 1990s that struck former members of the Soviet Union was almost twice as intense as the Great Depression in the countries of Western Europe and the United States in the 1930s. Average standards of living registered a catastrophic fall in the early 1990s in many parts of the former Eastern Bloc, most notably in post - Soviet states. Even before Russia's financial crisis of 1998, Russia's GDP was half of what it had been in the early 1990s. Some populations are still poorer today than they were in 1989 ( e. g. Ukraine, Moldova, Serbia, Central Asia, Caucasus ). The collapse of the Soviet planned economy and the transition to a market economy resulted in catastrophic declines in GDP of about 45 % from 1990 to 1996 and poverty in the region had increased more than tenfold. Finnish economists refer to the Finnish economic decline during and after the breakup of the Soviet Union ( 1989 - 1994 ) as a great depression ( suuri lama ). However, the depression was multicausal, with its severity compounded by a coincidence of multiple sudden external shocks, including loss of Soviet trade, the savings and loan crisis and early 1990s recession in the West, with the internal overheating that had been brewing throughout the 1980s. Liberalization had resulted in the so - called " casino economy ". Persistent structural and monetary policy problems had not been solved, leaving the economy vulnerable to even mild external shocks. The depression had lasting effects : the Finnish markka was floated and was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment. Employment has never returned even close to the pre - crisis level. Other depressions ##GlobalThe late 1910s and early 1920s were marked by an economic depression that unraveled in particularly catastrophic circumstances : World War I and its aftermath led to a global nosedive in commodities that ruined many developing nations, while servicemen returning from the trenches found themselves with high unemployment as businesses failed, unable to transition into a peacetime economy. Also, the Spanish flu pandemic of 1918 - 20 brought economic activity to a standstill as even more people became incapacitated. Most developed countries had mostly recovered by 1921 - 22, however Germany saw its economy crippled until 1923 - 24 because of the hyperinflation crisis. The 1973 oil crisis, coupled with the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state in most countries led to a recession between 1973 and 1975, followed by a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment. The 1980 - 82 recession marked the end of the period. The savings & loans and the leveraged buyout crises led to a severe depression in mid - to - late 1989, causing a recession in 1990 - 91 ( also fueled by the oil price crisis ), whose effects lasted as late as 1994. This downturn is more remembered for its political effects : British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had to resign in November 1990 ; and while his approval ratings were above 60 %, U. S. President George H. W. Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton because of the domestic malady marked by the depression and increasing urban decay. In 2005, the persistent oil price rises and economic overheating caused by deregulation led to a gradual deterioration of the world economy with inflation and unemployment rising as growth slowed : burst in 2007, and the American economy slipped into a recession. This, in turn, provoked the failure of many prominent financial institutions throughout 2008, most notably Lehman Brothers, leading to the loss of millions of jobs. RegionalSeveral Latin American countries had severe downturns in the 1980s : by the Kehoe and Prescott definition of a great depression as at least one year with output 20 % below trend, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, and Peru experienced great depressions in the 1980s, and Argentina experienced another between 1998 and 2002. South American countries fell once again into this in the early - to - mid 2010s. This definition also includes the economic performance of New Zealand from 1974 to 1992 and Switzerland from 1973 to the present, although this designation for Switzerland has been controversial. From 1980 to 2000, Sub - Saharan Africa broadly suffered a fall in absolute income levels. 
--------------------

Nucleus: This, in turn, provoked the failure of many prominent financial institutions throughout 2008, most notably Lehman Brothers,
Satellite: leading to the loss of millions of jobs.

Relation: Cause

Question: Why did the downturn in the economy lead to the loss of millions of jobs?
Answer: This, in turn, provoked the failure of many prominent financial institutions throughout 2008, most notably Lehman Brothers.
Distractor 1: The 1973 oil crisis and the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state in most countries led to a gradual deterioration of the world economy.
Distractor 2: The oil price rises and economic overheating caused by deregulation led to a gradual deterioration of the world economy.
Distractor 3: The Japanese government had not solved structural and monetary policy problems.

Nucleus: burst in 2007,
Satellite: and the American economy slipped into a recession.

Relation: Cause

Question: Why did the American economy slip into a recession?
Answer: Burst in 2007.
Distractor 1: The oil price rises and the deregulation caused a gradual deterioration of the world economy.
Distractor 2: The oil price rises and the deregulation caused a gradual deterioration of the world economy.
Distractor 3: The oil price rises and the deregulation caused a gradual deterioration of the world economy.

Nucleus: The savings & loans and the leveraged buyout crises led to a severe depression in mid - to - late 1989,
Satellite: causing a recession in 1990 - 91 ( also fueled by the oil price crisis ), whose effects lasted as late as 1994.

Relation: Cause

Question: Why did the 1980 - 1982 recession have such severe effects?
Answer: The savings & loans and the leveraged buyout crises led to a severe depression in mid - to - late 1989.
Distractor 1: The 1973 oil crisis and the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state led to a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.
Distractor 2: The 1973 oil crisis and the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state led to a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.
Distractor 3: The 1973 oil crisis and the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state led to a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.

Nucleus: The 1973 oil crisis,
Satellite: coupled with the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state in most countries led to a recession between 1973 and 1975, followed by a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.

Relation: Cause

Question: Why did the world economy suffer from a severe downturn between 1973 and 1975?
Answer: The 1973 oil crisis.
Distractor 1: The collapse of the welfare state.
Distractor 2: The collapse of the banking system.
Distractor 3: The collapse of the banking system.

Nucleus: World War I and its aftermath led to a global nosedive in commodities
Satellite: that ruined many developing nations, while servicemen returning from the trenches found themselves with high unemployment as businesses failed, unable to transition into a peacetime economy.

Relation: Cause

Question: Why a global downturn in the economy was called a peacetime economy?
Answer: World War I and its aftermath led to a global nosedive in commodities.
Distractor 1: The Spanish flu pandemic of 1918 - 20 brought economic activity to a standstill.
Distractor 2: The 1973 oil crisis led to a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.
Distractor 3: The 1973 oil crisis led to a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.

Nucleus: as businesses failed,
Satellite: unable to transition into a peacetime economy.

Relation: Cause

Question: Why a peacetime economy can't many people transition to a peacetime economy?
Answer: Businesses failed.
Distractor 1: People can't afford to pay for the services.
Distractor 2: People can't afford to pay for the services.
Distractor 3: People can't afford to pay for the services.

Nucleus: and was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999,
Satellite: ending decades of government control of the economy,

Relation: Cause

Question: Why did the Finnish economy lose control of its own country?
Answer: The Finnish markka was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999.
Distractor 1: The Finnish government had no control over the economy.
Distractor 2: The Finnish trade deficit was too high.
Distractor 3: The Finnish economy suffered a severe depression during and after the breakup of the Soviet Union.

Nucleus: Persistent structural and monetary policy problems had not been solved,
Satellite: leaving the economy vulnerable to even mild external shocks.

Relation: Cause

Question: Why even mild external shocks have been experienced by the Finnish economy?
Answer: Persistent structural and monetary policy problems had not been solved.
Distractor 1: The internal overheating had not been brewing throughout the 1980s.
Distractor 2: The internal overheating had not been caused by the external shocks.
Distractor 3: The internal overheating had not been caused by the external shocks.

Nucleus: or may result in banking crisis ( in various ways that may be for example unauthorized transformations of banks ), and further the crisis in investment and credit ;
Satellite: that further could reflect on innovation and new businesses investments lessening or even shrinking,

Relation: Cause

Question: Why may economic depression also affect new businesses investments?
Answer: May result in banking crisis ( in various ways may be for example unauthorized transformations of banks ), and further the crisis in investment and credit.
Distractor 1: May result in new businesses investments lessening or even shrinking.
Distractor 2: May reflect on the work of banks and reflect on the work of suppliers.
Distractor 3: May reflect on innovation and new businesses investments lessening or shrinking.

Nucleus: that such technological difficult
Satellite: resulting in very large unemployment rates or lack of good social balance in employment among population, lesser revenues for businesses, or other economic difficulties,

Relation: Cause

Question: Why other countries have unusually large levels of unemployment?
Answer: Such technological difficult.
Distractor 1: The economy is not growing at all.
Distractor 2: The digital economy is not developed.
Distractor 3: The economy is not developed enough to support the population.

Nucleus: Also, the Spanish flu pandemic of 1918 - 20 brought economic activity to a standstill
Satellite: as even more people became incapacitated.

Relation: Explanation

Question: Why a Spanish flu pandemic brought economic activity to a standstill?
Answer: Even more people became incapacitated.
Distractor 1: Most developed countries had mostly recovered by 1921 - 22, however Germany saw its economy crippled until 1923 - 24 because of the hyperinflation crisis.
Distractor 2: The 1973 oil crisis, coupled with the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state in most countries led to a recession between 1973 and 1975.
Distractor 3: The oil price rises and economic overheating caused by deregulation led to a gradual deterioration of the world economy with inflation.

Nucleus: Under the first definition, each depression will always coincide with a recession,
Satellite: since the difference between a depression and a recession is the severity of the fall in economic activity.

Relation: Explanation

Question: Why will a depression always coincide with a recession?
Answer: The difference between a depression and a recession is the severity of the fall in economic activity.
Distractor 1: The length of depression will always be longer than that of the recession starting the same date.
Distractor 2: The length of depression will always be longer than that of the recession starting the same date.
Distractor 3: The length of depression will always be longer than that of the recession starting the same date.

Nucleus: This definition also includes the economic performance of New Zealand from 1974 to 1992 and Switzerland from 1973 to the present,
Satellite: although this designation for Switzerland has been controversial.

Relation: Contrast

Question: How does the term " Switzerland" compare to the other countries?
Answer: This definition also includes the economic performance of New Zealand from 1974 to 1992 and Switzerland from 1973 to the present, although this designation for Switzerland has been controversial.
Distractor 1: Switzerland is a country that has a stable economy and has a stable economy.
Distractor 2: Switzerland is a country that has a stable economy and a stable economy.
Distractor 3: Switzerland is a country that has a stable economy and a stable economy.

Nucleus: U. S. President George H. W. Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton because of the domestic malady marked by the depression and increasing urban decay.
Satellite: and while his approval ratings were above 60 %,

Relation: Contrast

Question: How did the US President George H. W. Bush's approval ratings compare to the 1992 election?
Answer: And while his approval ratings were above 60 %, U. S. President George H. W. Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton because of the domestic malady marked by the depression and increasing urban decay.
Distractor 1: His approval ratings were above 60 %, U. S. President George H. W. Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton because of the domestic malady marked by the depression and increasing urban decay.
Distractor 2: And while his approval ratings were above 60 %, U. S. President George H. W. Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton because of the domestic malady marked by the depression and increasing urban decay.
Distractor 3: And while his approval ratings were above 60 %, U. S. President George H. W. Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton because of the domestic malady marked by the depression and rising inflation and rising unemployment.

Nucleus: that ruined many developing nations,
Satellite: while servicemen returning from the trenches found themselves with high unemployment as businesses failed, unable to transition into a peacetime economy.

Relation: Contrast

Question: How was the economic situation after World War I different from the one after World War I?
Answer: A global nosedive ruined many developing nations, while servicemen returning from the trenches found themselves with high unemployment as businesses failed, unable to transition into a peacetime economy.
Distractor 1: Most developed countries had mostly recovered by 1921 - 22, however Germany saw its economy crippled until 1923 - 24 because of the hyperinflation crisis.
Distractor 2: The 1973 oil crisis, coupled with the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state in most countries, led to a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.
Distractor 3: The 1973 oil crisis, coupled with the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state in most countries led to a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.

Nucleus: and was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy,
Satellite: but also high, persistent unemployment.

Relation: Contrast

Question: How did the Finnish economy change in 1999?
Answer: And the Finnish markka was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment.
Distractor 1: And the Finnish markka was floated and was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment.
Distractor 2: And the Finnish markka was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment.
Distractor 3: And the Finnish markka was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment.

Nucleus: A long - term effect of the Great Depression was the departure of every major currency from the gold standard,
Satellite: although the initial impetus for this was World War II ( see Bretton Woods Accord ).

Relation: Contrast

Question: How was the effect of the Great Depression different from the other two periods?
Answer: A long - term effect of the Great Depression was the departure of every major currency from the gold standard, although the initial impetus for this was World War II ( see Bretton Woods Accord.
Distractor 1: The long - term effect of the Great Depression was the adoption of the gold standard in Britain and the United States.
Distractor 2: The Great Depression was the failure of banks and record high unemployment levels.
Distractor 3: The short - term effect of the Great Depression was the decline of the gross national product of the United States.

Nucleus: while the rate of unemployment increased to 25 % ( with industrial unemployment alone rising to approximately 35 %
Satellite: - U. S. employment was still over 25 % agricultural ).

Relation: Contrast

Question: How was the U.S. unemployment in 1930s different from the other countries?
Answer: While the rate of unemployment increased to 25 % ( with industrial unemployment alone rising to approximately 35 % U. S. employment was still over 25 % agricultural.
Distractor 1: While the rate of unemployment decreased to 25 % ( with industrial unemployment alone rising to approximately 25 % U. S. employment was still over 25 % agricultural.
Distractor 2: While the rate of unemployment decreased to 25 % ( with industrial unemployment alone rising to approximately 25 % U. S. employment was still over 25 % agricultural.
Distractor 3: While the rate of unemployment decreased to 25 % ( with industrial unemployment alone rising to approximately 35 % U. S. employment was still over 25 % agricultural.

Nucleus: it was followed by a thirty - year period of a booming economy in the United States, which is now called the Second Industrial Revolution ( of the 1850s ).
Satellite: As with most depressions,

Relation: Contrast

Question: How was the Great Depression of 1837 different from the Great Depression of 1837?
Answer: As with most depressions, it was followed by a thirty - year period of a booming economy in the United States, which is now called the Second Industrial Revolution ( of the 1850s.
Distractor 1: It was a worse depression in the United States than the later Great Depression of the 1930s.
Distractor 2: It was a five - year depression with the failure of banks and record high unemployment levels.
Distractor 3: It was a worse depression in the United States than the later Great Depression of the 1930s.

Nucleus: but this terminology is not widely used, with the episode instead being referred to by other terms, such as the " Great Recession ".
Satellite: has at times been termed a depression,

Relation: Contrast

Question: How has the 2008 - 2009 economic cycle been described?
Answer: The 2008 - 2009 economic cycle has at times been termed a depression, but this terminology is not widely used, with the episode instead being referred to by other terms, such as the " Great Recession.
Distractor 1: The 2008 - 2009 economic cycle has at times been termed a recession, but this terminology is not widely used, with the episode instead being referred to by other terms, such as the " Great Recession ".
Distractor 2: The 2008 - 2009 economic cycle has at times been termed a recession, but this terminology is not widely used, with the episode instead being referred to by other terms, such as the " Great Recession ".
Distractor 3: The 2008 - 2009 economic cycle has at times been termed a recession, but this terminology is not widely used, with the episode instead being referred to by other terms, such as the " Great Recession ".

Nucleus: There have been many periods of prolonged economic underperformance in particular countries / regions since 1945, detailed below,
Satellite: but terming these as " depressions " is controversial.

Relation: Contrast

Question: How has the definition of " depressions " changed since the beginning of the 20th century?
Answer: There have been many periods of prolonged economic underperformance in particular countries / regions since 1945, detailed below, but terming these as " depressions " is controversial.
Distractor 1: The 2008 - 2009 economic cycle has at times been termed a depression, but this terminology is not widely used, with the episode instead being referred to by other terms, such as the " Great Recession ".
Distractor 2: The lack of an agreed definition and the strong negative associations has made the definition of any period as a " depression " contentious.
Distractor 3: The 2008 - 2009 economic cycle has comprised the most significant global crisis since the Great Depression, but this terminology is not widely used, with the episode instead being referred to by other terms, such as the " Great Recession ".

Nucleus: this is simply a stylistic change, similar to the decline in the use of " panic " to refer to financial crises,
Satellite: but it does also reflect that the economic cycle - both in the United States and in most OECD countries - though not in all - has been more moderate since 1945.

Relation: Contrast

Question: How is the current economic situation related to the Great Depression?
Answer: This is simply a stylistic change, similar to the decline in the use of " panic " to refer to financial crises, but it does also reflect that the economic cycle - both in the United States and in most OECD countries - though not in all - has been more moderate since 1945.
Distractor 1: There have been many periods of prolonged economic underperformance in particular countries / regions since 1945, but not in the United States.
Distractor 2: This is a stylistic change, similar to the decline in the use of " panic " to refer to financial crises, but it does not reflect that the economic cycle - both in the United States and in most OECD countries - though not in all - has been more moderate since 1945.
Distractor 3: This is a stylistic change, similar to the decline in the use of " panic " to refer to financial crises, but not in the United States.

Nucleus: but economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " recessions ", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression.
Satellite: and for the more widespread crises of the 1870s and 1930s,

Relation: Contrast

Question: How was the term 'Great Depression' used for regional crises?
Answer: And for the more widespread crises of the 1870s and 1930s, but economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " recessions ", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression.
Distractor 1: And for the more widespread crises of the 1870s and 1930s, but economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " recessions ", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression.
Distractor 2: And for the more widespread crises of the 1870s and 1930s, but economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " recessions ", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression.
Distractor 3: And for the more widespread crises of the 1870s and 1930s, but economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " recessions ", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression.

Nucleus: but economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " recessions ",
Satellite: with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression.

Relation: Contrast

Question: How are economic crises since 1945 referred to?
Answer: But economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " recessions ", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression.
Distractor 1: But economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " depressions ", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression.
Distractor 2: But economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " depressions ", with the 1970s global crisis referred to as " stagflation ", but not a depression.
Distractor 3: But economic crises since 1945 have generally been referred to as " depressions ", with the 1980s global crisis referred to as " depression ", but not a depression.

Nucleus: Under the second definition, depressions and recessions will always be distinct events
Satellite: however, having the same starting dates.

Relation: Contrast

Question: How is a recession defined differently?
Answer: However, depressions having the same starting dates. Under the second definition, depressions and recessions will always be distinct events.
Distractor 1: Depressions having the same duration. Under the second definition, depressions and recessions will always be distinct events.
Distractor 2: Depressions having the same starting dates. Under the second definition, depressions and recessions will always be distinct events.
Distractor 3: Depressions having the same duration. Under the second definition, depressions and recessions will always be distinct events.

Nucleus: the phrase " The Great Depression " had already been used
Satellite: to refer to the period 1873 - 96 ( in the United Kingdom ), or more narrowly 1873 - 79 ( in the United States ), which has since been renamed the Long Depression.

Relation: Enablement

Question: For what purpose was the phrase " The Great Depression" used?
Answer: To refer to the period 1873 - 96 ( in the United Kingdom ), or more narrowly 1873 - 79 ( in the United States ), the period has since been renamed the Long Depression.
Distractor 1: To refer to the period 1873 - 96 ( in the United Kingdom ), or more narrowly 1873 - 79 ( in the United States ), the period has since been renamed the Long Depression.
Distractor 2: To refer to the period 1873 - 96 ( in the United Kingdom ), or more narrowly 1873 - 79 ( in the United States ), the period has since been renamed the Long Depression.
Distractor 3: To refer to the period 1873 - 96 ( in the United Kingdom ), or more narrowly 1873 - 79 ( in the United States ), the period has since been renamed the Long Depression.

Nucleus: Thomas Hobbes, an English philosopher, created the first recorded explanation of the need for a universal Social Contract in his 1651 book Leviathan
Satellite: based on the general misery within society during this period.

Relation: Manner-Means

Question: How did Thomas Hobbes explain the need for a universal Social Contract?
Answer: Based on the general misery within society during this period.
Distractor 1: Based on the speculative real estate market.
Distractor 2: Based on the rise of the Stuart Monarchy.
Distractor 3: Based on the adoption of the gold standard.

Nucleus: most economists refer to the Great Depression, as the period between 1929 and 1941.
Satellite: Using the second definition of depression,

Relation: Manner-Means

Question: How is the Great Depression defined?
Answer: Using the second definition of depression.
Distractor 1: Using the first definition of depression.
Distractor 2: Using the third definition of depression.
Distractor 3: Using the third definition of depression.

Nucleus: to purchase goods
Satellite: relative to the amount that could be produced using current resources and technology ( potential output ).

Relation: Manner-Means

Question: How are periods labeled depressions defined?
Answer: Relative to the amount could be produced using current resources and technology ( potential output.
Distractor 1: A decline in real GDP exceeding 10 % and a recession lasting 2 or more years.
Distractor 2: A decline in real GDP exceeding 10 % and a recession lasting 2 or more years.
Distractor 3: A decline in real GDP exceeding 10 % and a recession lasting 2 or more years.

Nucleus: that could be produced
Satellite: using current resources and technology

Relation: Manner-Means

Question: How the goods can be produced in a recession according to the National Bureau of Economic Research?
Answer: Using current resources and technology.
Distractor 1: Using current resources and technology.
Distractor 2: Using current technology and innovation.
Distractor 3: Using current resources and technology.

Nucleus: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, and Peru experienced great depressions in the 1980s,
Satellite: and Argentina experienced another between 1998 and 2002.

Relation: Temporal

Question: After the global downturn, what was the definition of a great depression?
Answer: Argentina experienced another between 1998 and 2002.
Distractor 1: The global recession was followed by a period of minimal growth and rising inflation.
Distractor 2: The oil price rises and the deregulation caused a severe depression.
Distractor 3: The European Union experienced another depression between 1980 and 2008.

Nucleus: coupled with the rising costs of maintenance of welfare state in most countries led to a recession between 1973 and 1975,
Satellite: followed by a period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.

Relation: Temporal

Question: After the 1973 oil crisis, what was the result of the recession?
Answer: A period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.
Distractor 1: A period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.
Distractor 2: A period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.
Distractor 3: A period of almost minimal growth and rising inflation and unemployment.

Nucleus: the Finnish markka was floated
Satellite: and was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment.

Relation: Temporal

Question: After the financial crisis of 1998, what happened to the Finnish economy?
Answer: The Finnish markka was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment.
Distractor 1: The Finnish markka was floated and then replaced by the euro, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment.
Distractor 2: The Finnish markka was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment.
Distractor 3: The Finnish markka was eventually replaced by the euro in 1999, ending decades of government control of the economy, but also high, persistent unemployment.

Nucleus: This depression is generally considered to have begun with the Wall Street Crash of 1929,
Satellite: and the crisis quickly spread to other national economies.

Relation: Temporal

Question: After the Wall Street Crash of 1929?
Answer: The crisis quickly spread to other national economies.
Distractor 1: the gross national product of the United States decreased by 33 %.
Distractor 2: The rate of unemployment increased to 25 %.
Distractor 3: The recession was longer than the 1930s depression.

Nucleus: ##Starting with the adoption of the gold standard in Britain and the United States,
Satellite: the Long Depression ( 1873 - 1896 )

Relation: Temporal

Question: After the adoption of the gold standard in Britain and the United States, what was called the Great Depression?
Answer: The Long Depression ( 1873 - 1896.
Distractor 1: The Great Depression ( 1873 - 1896).
Distractor 2: The Great Depression ( 1873 - 1896).
Distractor 3: The Great Depression ( 1873 - 1896.

Nucleus: causing a recession in 1990 - 91 ( also fueled by the oil price crisis ),
Satellite: whose effects lasted as late as 1994.

Relation: Elaboration

Question: What was the oil price crisis?
Answer: Whose effects lasted as late as 1994.
Distractor 1: Whose effects lasted as late as 1990.
Distractor 2: Whose effects lasted as late as 1980.
Distractor 3: Whose effects lasted as late as 1990.

Nucleus: ##The economic crisis in the 1990s
Satellite: that struck former members of the Soviet Union was almost twice as intense as the Great Depression in the countries of Western Europe and the United States in the 1930s.

Relation: Elaboration

Question: What was the economic crisis in the 1990s comparable to the Great Depression in the Soviet Union?
Answer: Struck former members of the Soviet Union was almost twice as intense as the Great Depression in the countries of Western Europe and the United States in the 1930s.
Distractor 1: The economic crisis in the 1990s was as severe as the Great Depression in the countries of Western Europe and the United States in the 1930s.
Distractor 2: The economic crisis in the 1990s was as severe as the Great Depression in the countries of Western Europe and the United States in the 1930s.
Distractor 3: The economic crisis in the 1990s was as severe as the Great Depression in the countries of Western Europe and the United States in the 1930s.

Nucleus: The more common use, however, also encompasses the time
Satellite: until the economic activity has returned close to normal levels.

Relation: Elaboration

Question: What is the most common definition of depression?
Answer: The economic activity has returned close to normal levels.
Distractor 1: The economic activity has decreased significantly.
Distractor 2: The economic activity has decreased significantly.
Distractor 3: The economic activity has decreased significantly.

Nucleus: Some economists refer only to the period
Satellite: when economic activity is declining.

Relation: Elaboration

Question: What do some economists refer to as the period?
Answer: Economic activity is declining.
Distractor 1: The period when economic activity is increasing.
Distractor 2: The period when the economy is in recession.
Distractor 3: The period when the economy is in recession.

Nucleus: It is a result of more severe economic problems or a downturn than the recession itself,
Satellite: which is a slowdown in economic activity over the course of the normal business cycle of growing economy.

Relation: Elaboration

Question: What is an economic depression?
Answer: Is a slowdown in economic activity over the course of the normal business cycle of growing economy.
Distractor 1: Is a period of prolonged economic downturn that has worsened.
Distractor 2: Is a period of increased economic activity that has worsened.
Distractor 3: Is a period of prolonged economic downturn that has worsened.

Nucleus: that may be named economic depression are part of economic cycles
Satellite: where the slowdown of the economy follows the economic growth and vice versa.

Relation: Elaboration

Question: What is the relationship between economic cycles?
Answer: The slowdown of the economy follows the economic growth and vice versa.
Distractor 1: The economy slows down and continues to grow.
Distractor 2: The economy slows down and continues to grow.
Distractor 3: The economy slows down and continues to grow.
